All right, so before we move any
further, I would like to discuss
very briefly about how do we
actually structure Python code.
Or probably more better word would be
organize, your Python code.
Organize your.
I can write that.
Organize your Python code.
So there are a lot of debates about
how do we organize Python, code.
And again, there are a lot of right
and wrong and a lot of very
opinionated people working on it.
I'll show you my way
of doing it and then you can just
go ahead and follow along
most of the part of it.
But again, feel free
to experiment with this.
There is no such thing.
Let's just say we want to have
a code for running a chai shop.
There are a lot of things
that happens with it.
So I call this my as first
or the top level folder, just like
we are creating here, things like
01, virtual or all of this.
So this is my first
folder level structure.
Now once I have this folder level
structure inside this, I simply
go ahead and say inside this I will
always have a run script
which runs my whole program.
It could be run py, it could be
main py, it could be index py.
A lot of people have opinions,
but this is majorly used
to start my application.
So I call this one as
starter or starts the app.
This is my first folder
or the file that I have after this,
what do I have is all the helpful
files, whatever is required
for the code part of it.
So let's just say there's a chai py
all the functional part of the code.
Now not all the part can actually
lie is just in this folder.
We need some more organization
like some of the part, maybe web
servers, maybe some code for
the client, maybe some process for
processing machine learning.
So again, lot of folders
can actually be there.
So for example, there is
a folder of processing.
Yeah, go ahead and have that inside
this, have more files onto it.
That's okay.
Another thing which I usually
recommend people that sometimes you
want to have, naming vocabularies
in the Python as well.
So let's just call this one as utils.
And you will find some folders
like processing.
This is also utils
known as utilities.
But in some of these folders like
utils, what do we have is
an underscore, underscore init py.
What do we write inside this files?
Actually nothing.
This file is empty.
It's just the name of the file
which matters and which
actually differentiates
this processing with the utils.
And I'll tell you what's
the reason and what's the name
of each one of them?
So we do have first name known as
module or modules.
So I'll just call this one.
So this modules every single
file that you have, like this run
py and this chai py
all these files are known as modules
and you will see them a lot.
Another word that you're going to
see a lot in the world of Python is
known as package or packages,
whatever you want to call them.
Any folder which has this initial
this is known as package.
And yes, that's the difference.
Any folder which has underscore
underscore in it py
empty file is called as package.
But this processing since it doesn't
have this file is not going to be
called as packages and that's it.
Now inside these files like chai py
we have the classes, just like we
saw at the very top of it here.
Like we call this class, then we
have some functions inside it, or
maybe file just have the function,
don't even have the class.
These are the files and we call them
just as classes or functions.
So just always keep in mind this
is organization, structure.
Again it could have been
different name like source
controllers, whatnot, whatever
you want to call them.
That's not the problem.
Just remember few things that
hey, these are my modules.
Like normal Python files.
If a folder has initinit underscore
that means it's a package, it's
a Python vocabulary and then rest
of the folders are just programs or
files and folders just like that.
We don't have a specific
name for them.
All right, apart from this, one
more thing I would like to mention
here is just keep this in mind
that we will have a lot
of folder based structure or files.
These are things.
Just remember one thing that
anything that goes, let's just
say diagrams will surely have.
Let's just say this is again a class
and inside this you
have created this folder and you
have created this folder.
Whatever you create.
For example, let's just say you
create a smaller thing, outside
in this class and you also
create some things inside this.
And you also create some
things inside this.
So whole other thing that I want
to say in this is if this program
wants to access this, it is
perfectly okay because it's outside.
And if this program wants to access
this thing which is
inside here, that is not okay.
Yeah, this part is not okay.
So treat each of the function
as an individual house
and anything inside this house is
accessible only by these people.
So they can access anything
outside the house, which is
here in public, in open.
But if you want to go anybody's
house and want to use
anything, that's not possible.
Now again, I just want you
to keep this in mind.
As of now it, will get much more
clear as we write the code.
But I just want you to keep this
in mind as this is whole of your
city and this is your house.
Anything that you bring inside the
house or you make inside the house,
maybe you're just a carpenter, you
like to make stuff, you can
actually, your family members can
access all of these things, no
problem at all.
This guy can access this, this
guy can access this, no problem.
But when you try to access somebody
else's house, he has to
explicitly give you the permission
that, hey, you can use this.
But if anything, this is here like
it's a public park or public
road, hey, anybody can access this.
If this guy wants to access
it, that's okay, totally
okay, no problem there.
But if something is inside
the house, that creates a problem.
So this is something known
as namespace and scope.
And yes, it will get much more
clear as we write the code.
But just remember this concept that,
hey, this is my house, this is whole
of my city, this is public park,
and this is again, somebody
else's property in their house.
So I cannot access that.
And yeah, this is all that
I wanted to have you about.
The basics of how can I actually
organize my Python code.
And this is it again.
I know this is a lot
of theory, but this is all
required, this is important.
I don't want to skip even
a tiny bit detail to make you
a Python programmer, even
a good Python programmer.
That is it for this video.
Let's catch up in the next one.